# customer-search
A simple React customer search application built with a C# backend.

## Dependencies
[NET 5.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/5.0)

[Node.js (npm)](https://nodejs.org/en/)

[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for easy editing

## Setup and Configuration

### Building

Install:

Build commands
1. In the `frontend` directory, Run `npm install` and `npm run build` to build js/css bundles (copied to `backend/wwwroot/bundles` directory automatically).
2. In the `backend` directory, Run `dotnet run` to build and start the web server.
3. If it does not exist, a database named `customer-test.db` will be created in the working directory.
4. Open app by using the default URL `https://localhost:5001` (see output to confirm URL).

## Other Commands
* Backend Tests (Run in `backendTests` directory)
  - Run NUnit tests: `dotnet test`
* Frontend Tests (Run in `frontend` directory)
  - Run Jest tests: `npm run test`

## Code Explaination
C# and React were chosen because they are the most recent languages that I have professional experience with.

### Backend
Project structure:
* Controllers - View and API controllers
* DomainObjects - Simple Entity Framework objects, minimal or no logic
* DomainServices - Entity Framework and wrappers to retrieve DomainObjects
* Models - Objects to be serialized to JSON by controllers, uses camelCasing to match frontend
* ModelServices - Services to convert DomainObjects into Models that can be used by the frontend
* Properties - Autogenerated configuration files web server
* Views - Simple razor views to display React frontend
* wwwroot - Root of web server. js/css bundles are in `bundles` directory

#### Backend Tests
* Test project, copies folder structure from `backend`

I used Moq and NUnit for my testing libraries. NUnit has a good testing syntax and Moq is a powerful C# interface mocking library.
Moq made it easier to test controllers while avoiding any interaction with the database or modeling services.

Entity Framework worked well, it was simple to setup and use. Testing EF was a bit of a challenge, requireing wrapping CustomerContext in CustomerRepository to properly mock the object.

This was my first time using the `dotnet` CLI tool for anything substantial. It works very well with VS code, I never had to open visual studio 🎉

### Frontend
